And I will admit at the beginning of this message
that it will just be a springboard from Psalm 70,
and we'll get into the message,
be in a number of different portions of scripture
this morning, and I trust it'll be a blessing to you.
It's only five verses of scripture.
Our thought for the message will come from verse number four,
but let me read the entirety of the psalm
and make a few comments by way of introduction.
Notice the psalmist begins.
It is a psalm of David.
It's ascribed to David.
And notice what he says in verse number one.
Make haste, O God, to deliver me.
Make haste to help me, O Lord.
Aren't you thankful that he's able to deliver?
Aren't you thankful that he's able to help?
We find the psalmist said this.
I will lift up mine eyes into the hills
from whence cometh my help.
My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth.
And I'm thankful that the creator God is my God.
He is my helper.
And here David begins.
He uses the phrase make haste on two occasions.
Have you ever been in a difficulty
where you really need God to hurry up and get there?
Amen.
And we think our timetable is different
than God's timetable.
And David is in such a situation that on two occasions,
in one verse of scripture, as he's praying to God,
he says, make haste, O God, to deliver me.
To deliver me.
Make haste to help me, O Lord.
Let them be ashamed and confounded
that seek after my soul.
Let them be turned backward
and put to confusion that desire my hurt.
We find that in verse number two,
God gives us some additional insight
as to the prayer of David in verse number one
and why he is praying with such urgency.
There are times in our lives where we pray with urgency
because of the situation in which we're facing.
And we find that he mentions about those
that would seek his hurt,
those that would desire his soul.
Let them be turned back, verse number four,
for a reward of their shame that say, aha, aha.
Then he says this in verse number four,
let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee.
You know that we have the promise of the word of God
that if we seek him, that we'll find him.
And we find that he says this,
let all those that seek thee,
that just got really kind of echoey there, Jim,
let them that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee.
Amen?
We're rejoicing in God.
We're glad in the Lord.
Amen?
And we find that as we seek him,
by the way, we are told in the word of God
that we're to seek the Lord.
Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness
and all these things shall be added unto you.
We are to seek the Lord,
set our affection on things above,
not on things of the earth.
And we find here that he says
that those that would seek the Lord,
that were to rejoice in the Lord,
that were to be glad in the Lord,
then notice this,
and let such as love thy salvation,
say continually, not occasionally,
not every once in a while,
but let them say continually,
let God be magnified.
Isn't that powerful truth?
Let those that love thy salvation
say continually, let God be magnified.
Now we understand in verse number one
that the psalmist is praying for deliverance.
And oftentimes in the Old Testament,
when you read the word salvation,
it's speaking of deliverance in this particular setting,
in this particular psalm.
It's deliverance from those
that are mentioned in verse number two,
that sought the soul of David,
that sought to hurt David,
and he's praying for deliverance,
make haste, O God, to deliver me.
And as God would deliver,
and we find that David gives testimony
of God delivering him on a number of occasions,
he says, let them,
and let such as love thy salvation,
say continually, let God be magnified.
Notice what he says in verse five,
but I am poor and needy.
Do you recognize that you're poor and needy?
Honestly.
You know, sometimes if we're not careful,
we get that Laodicean attitude.
I'm increased with goods and have need of nothing.
Right, that's what it says in Revelation 3.
But notice what the psalmist says,
I am poor and needy.
Without thee, I can do nothing.
Paul said, I know that in me that is in my flesh
is full of no good thing.
He says this, I know that I am what I am
by the grace of God.
And here, the psalmist says, I am poor and needy.
Notice, he says again, this urgency
that we read in verse number one,
make haste unto me, O God.
Thou art my help and my deliverer.
O Lord, make no tarrying.
Wow.
The psalmist understands how desperately he needs God.
But he says in the middle of the text,
in verse number four, that those that love thy salvation,
that we are to say continually, let God be magnified.
Let God be magnified.
As a New Testament believer,
when I read the word salvation,
I think more of my eternal salvation, don't you?
And we understand that he's delivered us
from the penalty of sin.
He's delivered us from that death,
that second death, the lake of fire,
the separation from God for all of eternity.
I am so thankful this morning.
It is absolutely wonderful to be saved, isn't it?
I mean, we sang this morning,
since Jesus came into my heart,
we sang this morning because he lives,
we begin to think about our salvation in Jesus Christ.
We understand this morning
that when we consider our eternal security in Christ,
that we know that one day, one glorious day,
we will put off this old tabernacle, as Peter says,
and we will ever be with the Lord.
Isn't that wonderful?
We begin to think about our salvation,
and we understand this morning
that we have been saved by grace,
and we are kept by the power of Almighty God.
There is nothing that you did to get saved.
There's nothing that you do to stay saved.
We are saved by grace, and we are kept by his power.
Jesus said this in John chapter number 10,
in verses 27 through 30.
He said, my sheep hear my voice, and I know them,
and I give unto them eternal life.
Then he says this, and they shall never perish.
Isn't that wonderful?
He says, I give them eternal life,
and they shall never perish.
Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand.
He then goes on to say this,
my Father which gave them me is greater than all,
and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand.
I and my Father are one.
Wow.
Salvation is the work of God.
I've said it already, but there's absolutely nothing
that I did to assist God in my salvation.
Amen?
He said, it is finished.
We have spoken before how that biblical Christianity,
to say it this way, it's a done situation.
It's done, it's complete.
It's paid in full.
Many of the religions of the world are saying, do.
What must you do?
No, no, the Philippian jailer said,
what must I do to be saved?
And they simply said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ,
and thou shalt be saved.
Not only is there nothing that I did
to assist in my salvation,
there's absolutely nothing I can do to keep my salvation.
I am kept by the power of God.
Therefore, as we would consider the statement of David
in Psalm 70, and thinking about those that would love
the salvation, the deliverance, that temporal reference
that is being made in Psalm 70,
that they are to say continually, let God be magnified.
How much greater for those of us that have been saved
by the precious blood of Jesus Christ,
that we ought to say of our lives, let God be magnified.
Let God be magnified.
The truth of the Bible is that God is great.
Amen, aren't you thankful for that?
God has declared His greatness in His word.
He has demonstrated His greatness in His word.
As you study the scriptures, you study,
and God has revealed Himself to us,
and in so doing, He has revealed to us that He is great,
that He is the great God.
The psalmist says, great is the Lord,
and greatly to be praised in Psalm 48 and verse number one.
The psalmist says this in Psalm 135,
I know that the Lord is great.
This morning, the idea of this thought,
let God be magnified, the word magnify is to deem
or declare great to exalt.
The reality this morning is that we that have been saved,
those of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ
as our personal Savior, we're to let His greatness be known.
And one way in which we do that is through the text
that we have here in Psalm 70 this morning,
that we're to let God be magnified,
that we love the salvation that is provided,
that we're to say continually, let God be magnified,
that in my life that.
that God would be magnified.
That in your life, God would be magnified.
Because why?
We live in the midst of a people,
we live in the midst of a generation
that they do not know the greatness of our God.
There are many people that have only heard
the name of our Savior used in an inappropriate way.
They don't know how great our God is.
There are times in which no doubt you,
just as I have heard someone use
the name of the Lord in vain and it grieves my heart,
it grieves my spirit, why?
Because that's my Savior.
And do you know how great He is?
He's wonderful.
And as the people of God, we are to magnify our God.
We are to declare His greatness.
We are to exalt Him.
I want you to notice if you're taking notes this morning,
just a couple of thoughts.
Number one, a resolve to magnify the Lord.
I use the word resolve on purpose this morning
because this idea of being resolved to do something
is a fixed purpose of mind.
I like this definition.
It is settled determination.
I am resolved.
A resolve to magnify the Lord.
A settled determination that in my life,
that through my life,
I am going to declare the greatness of God.
I am going to magnify my God.
As we think about this truth of a resolve
to magnify the Lord, I see several examples
in the scripture.
The first is the resolve of the psalmist.
Notice you're in Psalm 70,
but look back in Psalm 69 in verse number 30.
Notice what the psalmist says here.
Again, another psalm that's attributed to David.
It says in Psalm 69 in verse number 30,
I will praise the name of God with a song
and will magnify Him with thanksgiving.
I like the first two words, I will.
That's resolve.
That's determination.
That's settled determination.
That is a fixed purpose of mind.
I will do this.
What does the psalmist say he will do?
I will praise the name of God with a song.
Aren't you thankful that He is worthy of our praise?
And we're to lift up our voice
and sing praise unto the name of our God
because He is worthy.
And then the psalmist says,
I will magnify Him with thanksgiving.
You know, when you give thanks, you're magnifying God.
Why?
Because you're declaring His greatness.
I'm thanking God for what He's done,
for who He is, and for how He's worked.
And I'm having that thankful spirit,
that thankful attitude,
and in so doing, in giving thanks,
we're magnifying our God.
Because we're letting others know how great He is.
We're letting others know what He's done
and how He's worked.
As the people of God,
we understand that we have been given the command
of offering thanksgiving to our God.
He is worthy of our praise.
In everything, give thanks,
for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.
So many people desire to know the will of God,
and they want to know some specific essence
or aspect of the will of God.
But for many of us this morning,
there is much revealed to us in His Word
about the universal, if you will,
will of God for His people.
It is God's will that we thank Him.
It's God's will.
Amen?
Notice in Psalm 34, turn back, if you will, in Psalm 34,
another psalm here that's attributed or ascribed to David.
And notice in Psalm 34,
again, this idea of magnifying the Lord,
this resolve to magnify the Lord
and how you and I should have this same level of resolve,
this settled determination.
We see again the start of verse number one of Psalm 34,
I will.
Again, this determination, I will bless the Lord.
Notice when he says, at all times.
Sometimes we have difficulty with that, don't we?
At all times.
Why has that got to be in there?
Because we're to bless the Lord at all times.
Because God is always good.
Amen?
There's sometimes that we think that God is good
based on our circumstances.
You hear something happen and God works and God delivers
and God provides and someone says, man, isn't God good?
God's good all the time.
It's His nature.
Amen?
And we find here that He says,
I will bless the Lord at all times.
And then it says this,
His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
Continually.
Not occasionally, but all the time.
We're so filled with who God is.
We've spent so much time in His presence
that His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
Notice what the psalmist says.
My soul shall make her boast in the Lord.
Now remember what he said in verse number five of Psalm 70?
I am poor and needy, right?
And so here he says, I'm gonna make my boast in the Lord.
Why?
Because it's the Lord that gives deliverance.
It's the Lord that works.
It's the Lord that provides all that He provides for us.
It says, the humble shall hear thereof and be glad.
Then notice this in verse number three.
Oh, magnify the Lord with me
and let us exalt His name together.
David has a resolve to magnify the Lord in his life,
but then he has a desire to have others come with him
and join in.
He says, oh, magnify the Lord with me
and let us exalt His name together,
individually we are to magnify the Lord,
but corporately we're to magnify the Lord.
We are given a responsibility to make Christ known,
to declare His greatness,
and we find that we do that individually
and we do that corporately.
There needs to be a clear sound from our lives individually
and from our church corporately that our God is great
and that we are seeking to magnify, to exalt Him
in all that we say and do.
Notice the resolve of the psalmist.
We notice also the resolve of Mary.
Turn to the book of Luke, if you will.
In the first chapter of the book of Luke,
I want you to notice,
we will not take time to read the entirety
of what Mary says in verses 46
down through verse number 56.
I want you to see beginning in verse number 46
what Mary says.
In Luke 1 in verse number 46, Mary said,
my soul doth magnify the Lord
and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior.
Notice what she says in verse number 49.
For He that is mighty hath done to me great things
and holy is His name.
Wow.
See, she said in verse number 48
that He hath regarded the lowest state of His handmaiden,
but He that is mighty hath done to me great things
and holy is His name.
You know our God is holy.
And you know He is great.
And He has done for us great things.
And we ought to say, as Mary said in Luke 1 in verse 46,
my soul doth magnify the Lord.
Amen.
Mary didn't, this was not her doing
in carrying the Lord Jesus Christ.
The one that she would carry, God's Son,
we find that it was, she's with child of the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
And she understands how that He that is mighty
hath done great things.
He hath beheld and regarded the lowest state
of His handmaiden.
And I'm gonna magnify the Lord.
Wow.
He's done great things for us.
Notice what John the Baptist says.
We do not see necessarily the word magnify,
but in John chapter number three,
we're familiar with the verse of Scripture.
And it's very interesting because if you would take time
to look at what's happening in the Gospel of John,
and of course in the first chapter,
you find that John the Baptist is there on the scene.
Of course, it begins by speaking about the deity
of the Lord Jesus Christ.
And you begin to read about John the Baptist
and the record and the following that John the Baptist had.
But then you find that as John is there and he says,
as he sees the Lord Jesus Christ,
behold the Lamb of God,
which taketh away the sin of the world.
And you go through, you begin to see how that Jesus
begins to manifest His glory in chapter number two,
through the first miracle.
In John chapter number three,
the interaction between Jesus and Nicodemus.
And then you come to verse number 22,
and it says, after these things came Jesus and His disciples
into the land of Judea.
And there he tarried with them and baptized.
Notice what it says in verse 23.
And John, this is John the Baptist.
also was baptizing in Anon near to Salem,
because there was much water there,
and they came and were baptized,
for John was not yet cast into prison.
But then there arose a question
between some of John's disciples and the Jews
about purifying, and they came unto John
and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee
beyond Jordan, to whom thou bearest witness,
behold, the same baptizeth,"
notice what it says at the end of verse number 26,
and all men come to him.
I believe that the enemy's trying to work there
in John's heart, why?
Because of a seed of pride, right?
John had this following.
He's the forerunner of Jesus Christ.
He's prophesied of, and we find that they come
and they say, all men come to him.
John answered and said, a man can receive nothing
except it be given him from heaven.
Ye yourselves bear me witness that I said
I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him.
John understood who he was,
and he understood who Jesus was.
He says in verse number 29, he that hath the bride
is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom
which standeth and heareth him rejoiceth greatly, why?
Because of the bridegroom's voice,
this my joy therefore is fulfilled,
and then notice what he says, he must increase,
but I must decrease.
I don't see the word magnify,
but I see the idea of magnifying the Lord, don't you?
He must increase, I must decrease.
It's not about John the Baptist having a following.
It's not about John the Baptist being exalted
and having this level of prestige, if you will.
No, John understood that he's just a forerunner,
that Jesus is God in flesh, and that he is the Lamb of God
that would take away the sin of the world,
and he says he must increase, I must decrease.
We see the resolve of the psalmist.
We see the resolve of Mary.
We see the resolve of John the Baptist.
Notice with me the resolve of the apostle Paul.
In Philippians chapter number one,
we often read verse number 21.
In fact, many of us this morning could quote Philippians 1
in verse number 21, for to me to live is Christ
and to die is gain, but I want you to notice
what Paul says in Philippians 1 in verse number 20.
In Philippians 1 in verse number 20,
I want you to see the desire of the apostle Paul,
his desire to exalt, to magnify the Lord Jesus Christ.
It's a resolve that he has, this settled determination,
this fixed purpose of mind.
He says this in Philippians 1 in verse number 20.
According to my earnest expectation and my hope,
that in nothing I shall be ashamed,
but that with all boldness, as always,
so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body,
whether it be by life or by death,
for to me to live is Christ and to die is gain.
But notice the end of verse number 20.
He says that this, that Christ shall be magnified
in my body, whether it be by life or by death.
What's Paul saying?
I wanna declare the greatness of God.
Let God be magnified.
There's this resolve that we see of the psalmist
and of Mary and of John the Baptist and here of Paul,
where he says, I desire that God,
that the Lord Jesus Christ is magnified in my body,
whether it be by life or by death.
It's all because of Jesus.
And it's Christ that must be magnified in our lives.
And we must have this resolve.
We must have this settled determination
that we are going to live our lives in such a way
that He alone would be magnified.
Paul, during his first missionary journey,
they're wrapping it up near the end of the journey
and they come and God used them to perform great miracles
and the people of the city are ready to offer
and really to worship Paul.
Paul says, no, no, no, no.
I've come so that you might know the right one to worship,
so that you might know the true God.
See, Paul wasn't interested in being worshiped, why?
Because he was desirous that whether in his life
or by death, that Christ be magnified.
It's all about Christ.
We see here a resolve to magnify the Lord.
I think of some results, number two,
if you're taking notes, some results of magnifying the Lord.
It's interesting, it really kind of works
as a cycle, if you will.
The more I magnify the Lord, the more He's glorified.
The more I magnify the Lord, the more He's praised
and through my praise, He's magnified
and it just kind of keeps ratcheting up and up and up.
It's really interesting how it works.
Why, because I'm magnifying Him
and so His greatness is being made known,
not only in my life, but for those in which
would come into contact with me or with you
and then we praise Him some more.
Why, because He's worthy and as we're praising Him,
we're magnifying Him and then we praise Him some more
and we're magnifying Him.
It's wonderful.
Listen, this morning, no matter how high of a view
we have of God, it's not high enough.
You say, oh, but pastor, I have reached this place
in my life.
No, you haven't.
I've just never understood Him to be as great
as I understand Him today.
That's great, but if you keep walking with Him,
you'll find out tomorrow and next week
and next month and next year that He's greater
than you think He is right now.
Because He's greater, He's higher, He's better,
He's more lovely, He's wonderful.
Joy sang that song, Joy Clemon, He's more than wonderful.
I love that song, because He is so much more.
You say, well, wonderful's the greatest word
I can think of.
I know, because we're just finite and He's infinite.
My mind cannot fully comprehend the fullness
and the greatness of my God, and neither can yours.
You say, well, I have a better mind than you.
You may, but we cannot fully comprehend
how great our God is.
Here's why I know that.
Here's what the psalmist says.
He says, I know that the Lord is great.
And then several chapters later, he says,
His greatness is unsearchable.
You say, oh, there's the contradiction in the Bible
we've been looking for.
It's not a contradiction at all.
I absolutely know that God is great,
but His greatness is not fully revealed to us.
It is unsearchable.
I cannot fully comprehend how great my God is.
And the longer we walk with Him,
the more we find how great He is.
In your life, we sang that song this morning,
since Jesus came into my heart.
Do you remember when you first got saved?
No doubt this morning, if there's been any length of time
between your salvation and now where you sit this morning,
He ought to be greater in your heart than He was then.
You ought to have a greater understanding of who He is
and His greatness in your life today than you did then.
Amen?
So we find that some of these results of magnifying the Lord
is that as we magnify Him, He is glorified.
Let me say this, as we magnify Him, He is made known.
He is made known.
See, I mentioned this by way of introduction this morning.
It is the duty of God's people to make Christ known.
Then others would know His greatness.
Notice, if you will, turn over to the book of Psalms
in Psalm 145.
We read in Psalm 134 earlier in verse number two,
when the psalmist said this,
"'The humble shall hear thereof and be glad.'"
But I want you to notice what the psalmist says
in Psalm 145, and then I want you to think about it
in the context of what we read in the book of Joshua
and then into the book of Judges,
and really as it's revealed to us even in Psalm 78.
But notice here in Psalm 145,
and I'll try to connect all of those dots here
in just a few moments, but notice again the resolve,
the determination of the psalmist in verse number one,
"'I will extol thee, my God, exalt, to magnify.
"'O King, and I will bless thy name forever and ever.'"
Notice what he says in verse two,
"'Every day will I bless thee.'"
You know why the psalmist could say,
"'Every day will I bless thee?'
Because the same psalmist said that he, God,
daily loatheth us with benefits.
He understood who God was.
He said that the psalmist said this,
that we are to give thanks at the remembrance
of God's holiness.
And so every day I'm gonna praise God."
Why?
Because there's always reason to praise him.
He says, "'Every day will I bless thee,
"'and I will praise thy name forever and ever.
"'Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised,
"'and His greatness is unsearchable.'"
But then notice this in verse number four,
"'One generation shall praise thy works to another,
"'and shall declare thy mighty acts.
"'I will speak of the glorious honor of thy majesty
"'and of thy wondrous works,
"'and men shall speak.'"
of the might of Thy terrible acts, and I will declare Thy greatness."
The word magnify, it means to declare great, to exalt.
And so when the psalmist says at the end of verse number six, I will declare Thy greatness,
he's saying I'm going to magnify Thee, Lord.
I'm going to declare Thy greatness.
Notice he says, one generation shall praise Thy works to another.
We read in the book of Joshua, and you end the book of Joshua where Joshua, under the
leadership of God and under the instruction of God, he begins to charge, to give charge
to those that he's leading.
We read of the charge to the two and a half tribes, and then they depart, but you read
of the charge not only to the leaders, but then to the people.
And so often in Joshua 24, we quote where Joshua says, and as for me and my house, we
will serve the Lord.
What a great truth.
But Joshua is calling those that he's led that have seen the mighty hand of God, he's
calling them to follow the Lord, to make a commitment to serve God.
You begin to read in the book of Judges, you read how that Joshua and all the elders that
outlived Joshua, they died.
And there arose another generation.
As you read the book of Judges, that generation that rose up, they knew not God.
They served idols.
You say, how in the world?
History just keeps repeating itself.
Really, history just keeps repeating itself.
You go back in our nation's history, a hundred years, compared to today, somewhere along
the line, a generation failed to declare the greatness of God.
Amen?
And we find here that the psalmist is saying, I'm going to declare, see, the results or
some of the results of magnifying the Lord is not only that He's then going to be glorified,
but He's made known.
You know, there are some people that we come into contact with that just simply don't know
who God is.
They have this preconceived idea, they have this figure in their mind that's been formed
by who knows what, and some just deny the existence of God entirely, others have this
idea of who God is by different influences and influencers in their lives.
But we that know Him are the ones that get to make Him known.
See, the psalmist said that, let them that love thy salvation say continually, let God
be magnified.
Not only as I think about some of the results of magnifying the Lord is it that He would
be known and really fulfilling the ultimate purpose of our lives, but I want to say this,
I believe that as we magnify the Lord that we will remain humble.
That we will remain humble.
Remember back in Psalm 70 in verse number 5, He said, I am poor and needy.
And I said this at that point as I was giving the introduction that far too often, unfortunately,
we face the danger of being prideful and having the attitude of the Laodiceans that we are
increased with goods and have need of nothing.
And we find that as we magnify the Lord that it will enable us to remain humble.
If we would be honest this morning, pride is something that we all face.
Pride is something that every single one of us face.
And one way, I believe, one way that we can avoid the danger of pride is to magnify our
God.
Why?
Because we keep lifting Him up.
We keep exalting Him.
We keep magnifying Him.
It's nothing about me.
It's all about Him.
There's nothing good in me.
It's all about Him, right?
And all of a sudden there's humility because it's not about us.
It's not about me.
It's not about you.
It's about God.
When the Bible talks about, Jesus says this in Matthew 5, that we're to let our light
so shine before men that they may see our good works and do what?
They glorify our Father which is in heaven.
If we'd be honest this morning, the reality is that sometimes we like the applause of
man.
Our pride likes that, right?
But we have to understand it's all because of Jesus.
It's all because of Jesus.
There's nothing...
I didn't do anything to get saved.
I don't do anything to keep myself saved.
I didn't do anything to be called in the ministry.
And in fact, when He tried to call me in the ministry, I tried to refuse it.
Just being honest, I can't do that, God.
It's all about Jesus.
And as we exalt Him, as we magnify Him, it enables us to remain humble because it's Christ
in me, the hope of glory.
We are His workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, right?
It's all about Christ.
See the reality is that no one's going to see an exalted Chris man and say, I need that.
But if they see an exalted Christ in my life, I want His God, amen?
Because let me tell you what God has done in my life.
Let me tell you how God has changed my life.
Let me tell you...
And we begin to just magnify God.
We just begin to declare His greatness.
We just keep lifting Him up and lifting Him up and exalting Him.
And all of a sudden, it's not about us, it's all about Him.
John said, He must increase, I must decrease.
They said, John, He's baptizing and all men do follow Him.
Glory to God.
That's the point, amen?
That people would follow Jesus.
I want you to think about those that dealt with pride.
They failed to exalt the Lord, to magnify Him in their lives.
I'll use just a couple of examples.
Think about Saul.
Turn to 1 Samuel chapter 15.
And I'm actually going to be preaching from 1 Samuel 15 this evening, but I just want
to take one verse and be mindful of what is said by Samuel to Saul.
In the midst of his disobedience here in 1 Samuel 15 and verse number 17, notice what
Samuel says to him.
If you're there, 1 Samuel 15 and verse number 17, Samuel said,
When thou wast little in thine own sight,
dost thou not make the head of the tribes of Israel, and the Lord anointed the king
over Israel?
You know what happened to Saul?
He wasn't little in his own sight anymore.
He thought he knew better than God.
Samuel was very clear, I'll mention this this evening, he was very clear in verses 1 and
2 that this was the commandment of the Lord.
This was God's instruction to Saul.
But Saul disobeyed it.
And Samuel says, when you were little in your own sight, oh, that God would help us
to remain little in our own sight, that we're nothing.
You say, that's not good for my self-esteem, I know.
But it's true, we're nothing.
It's all because of God's amazing grace.
It's all because of Jesus.
Jesus, Uzziah, 2 Chronicles 26.
You're familiar with these examples, but I want you to see what the Word of God says.
It's amazing how God helped King Uzziah.
The Bible tells us in verse number 5 that he sought God in the days of Zechariah.
It tells us at the end of verse number 5 that as long as he sought the Lord, God made
him to prosper.
Man, verse number 5 is so important of a verse, principle of life.
We'd seek God, and then as we keep seeking God, God will keep blessing.
Listen, there's more danger in times of blessing than in times of want, times of distress and
difficulty.
Because in times of blessing, if we're not careful, we just get full of ourselves.
We become like the church of the Laodiceans, increased with goods and have need of nothing.
The Bible tells us in verse number 7, notice the first phrase, and God helped him.
Notice in verse number 8, the last phrase, for he strengthened himself exceedingly.
Verse number 15, it says, and he made in Jerusalem engines invented by cunning men to be on the
towers and upon the bulwarks to shoot arrows and great stones withal.
And his name spread far abroad, for he was marvelously helped, but it's a comma.
I wish it was a period, but it's a comma, till he was.
Strong.
Verse 16, but when he was strong, his heart was lifted up to what?
His destruction.
Well, you know what happens to you, Zion?
Becomes a leper.
His heart was lifted up.
What is that?
That's pride.
Right?
How do we avoid pride?
How do we avoid the danger of pride?
I believe that one way is by magnifying the Lord.
Look at what God has done.
Look at how God is working.
Look at how God is interceding.
Look at God.
Don't look at Uzziah.
Don't look at what we've done.
Don't look at what's been built.
It's God that has enabled us.
And maybe Uzziah would have never went in there and tried to offer the incense.
Maybe Uzziah never would have become a leper.
But when he was strong, his heart was lifted up to his destruction.
In a positive sense, I want you to think about the Apostle Paul.
In 2 Corinthians chapter number 12, we're familiar with the text of Scripture, and oftentimes
we reference the ninth verse, my grace is sufficient for thee.
But I want you to see some of what happens here in 2 Corinthians chapter number 12.
Paul is speaking about, in 2 Corinthians chapter number 12, the visions and all that he had.
He says of this in verse number 5, of such in one will I glory, yet of myself I will
not glory, but in mine infirmities.
Verse 6, for though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool, for I will say the
truth.
But now I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that which he seeth me to be,
or that he heareth of me.
He says this, unless I should be exalted above measure, notice this phrase, through the abundance
of the revelations.
You know, for many of us this morning, when we think about the Apostle Paul, when we reference
the Apostle Paul, there are times in which we'll use this phraseology, he's the greatest
Christian that ever lived.
I've heard it many times, I've probably said it, but you know what Paul says of himself?
I'm the chief of sinners.
This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the
world to save sinners, of whom I am chief.
That's what Paul says.
Paul understood that it was all about Jesus.
He understood that he was on a road of religion, and he was going to die and spend eternity
in a Christless eternity, separated from God.
Why?
Because he couldn't save them.
He had zeal.
He was lost.
And God revealed Himself to him.
And every time Paul had an opportunity to stand before people, you know what he did?
He magnified the Lord.
Let me tell you what Jesus did.
Let me tell you how He changed my life.
Let me tell you how I got saved.
Remember that truth of Philippians 1 and verse number 20, that Christ would be magnified
in my life, whether by life or by death.
Paul says, lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations.
Listen, we don't have the same kind of revelations that Paul is speaking of here today.
But can I tell you, at times, sometimes we can be lifted up because of what we know.
Sometimes we can think we're better than somebody else because of what we know.
Being saved really doesn't make me better, it just makes me blessed.
I mean, I'm going to a better place.
I am blessed.
I didn't do anything to get saved.
I heard the gospel and I believed it.
But I had nothing to do with hearing the gospel.
There was nothing I could do to orchestrate a man going by, sharing the gospel as my dad
walked by, to overhear the gospel being presented, nothing I could do.
And for many of you this morning, there's nothing you could do to have orchestrated
you hearing the gospel.
It is the grace of God.
So I was born in a Christian home.
Well, think about your parents and how somewhere, parents, grandparents, great-grandparents,
somewhere along the line, the gospel came into your family and it was nothing to do
with you.
It's all because of God's grace.
And Paul says, because of this, lest I should be exalted above measure, through the abundance
of the revelations, notice what he says, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the
messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure.
Paul acknowledged that it was this thing that God would use.
Of course, he says that he prayed that God would deliver him, that it would depart from
him, and God says, my grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect
in weakness.
And then Paul then says, most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities that
the power of Christ may rest upon me.
Why?
So that Christ would be magnified.
He said, listen, I could have been, because of what's happened, I could have been exalted
above measure.
But isn't God so gracious on keeping us humble?
And see, this morning, Paul says not only did he want to remain humble, we see that
in Acts chapter number 20, but he says here in verse number 6, lest that any man should
think of me above that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me.
Sometimes we might understand this thing of pride and humility, and we might work to be
humble, but I'm perfectly okay with Armando thinking really highly of me.
And I kind of take my pride that way, right?
No, no, Armando, it's God's work in my life.
It's all because of God's grace.
It's all because of God's mercy.
Let God be magnified.
And as I continually magnify Him, as I continually exalt Him, yes, He's glorified.
And the more He's glorified, the more He's magnified, and it's amazing how it ratchets
up.
And then we come to a place where Christ is being made known, because it's all about Christ
in my life and your life, individually and corporately.
It's about magnifying Christ, and it helps us to stay humble.
My feet stay on the ground, why?
Because it's all about Jesus.
It's all about Jesus.
This morning, I hope that we'd have a resolve to magnify the Lord.
I hope that when we see the resolve of the psalmist and of Mary and of John the Baptist
and of Paul, that we'd say, I want to have that settled determination that in my life,
let God be magnified.
I'm poor and needy, but He's wonderful.
He's more than wonderful.
He's my God.
And let me tell you what He's done for me.
Let God be magnified.
Father, we love You.
We thank You for loving us.
We thank You for the Word of God.
I thank You for the examples of Scripture.
I pray this morning that You'd help us in our lives to magnify You, to declare Your
greatness.
Oh, that we'd have a resolve, a settled determination, this purpose of mind that whether by life
or by death, that Christ would be magnified.
Help us to deal with pride.
Help us as we magnify Your name individually and corporately to make You known.
I pray this morning that we'd make the determination that in my life, with Your help, I'm going
to let God be magnified.
And God, I pray that as we do so, that You would enable us and strengthen us.
God, that Your name would be glorified.
I pray that You'd move and work in this time of invitation as only You can.
Help us to simply stand in awe of who You are.
Well, thank You for the work that You'll do, for it's in Christ's name we pray.
Would You stand with me?
Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.
Maybe Kimberly's going to play quietly on the piano.
Maybe you want to come this morning and make a commitment to the Lord.
I am resolved to magnify the Lord.
I'm poor and needy.
God's so wonderful and I need to declare His greatness at every opportunity.
I want to magnify the Lord in my life.
As Kimberly plays, the altar is open.
Let God be magnified.